Docs/Choices.md, before:

# Choices

### Team on localstorage

When a user visits a given pokemon they have the opportunity to press a “ADD TO TEAM” button. This will add the pokemon to a team that can be found under the “My Team” tab. The team consists of up to six pokemons that the user can choose freely.

The team is stored in localstorage and not in the database. We have chosen to do this because we don’t see it necessary to save the team to the database as there is no interaction with other peoples teams. We also don’t have a login/user function which makes a browser a user (as you get a userID). Therefore we find it suitable to save the team in localstorage. If we were to develop this application further we would store the team in the database in a similar way to reviews and all the pokemons. This would allow a user to perhaps search for pokemon teams of other users.

### Delayed search

When searching for a pokemon the application will wait for 600 milliseconds after the last keystroke before sending a query to the database. We considered two different approaches to searching. The first is sending a query after each keystroke immediately and the second one is implementing a “send” button that the user had to click in order to send the query.

The reason we have chosen our approach, is because waiting 600 milliseconds makes sure that we don’t send too many requests to the database. This would not have been sustainable. At the same time the user does not have to stop and press a button to get a response, they just have to wait a small amount of time. We found this approach to be a suitable middleground between the two other approaches.

### Colors

![Colors](./img/colors.png)

### Overall theme

We have chosen to go for dark colors on the website as this suits the theme very well. A further development of the application should involve a light-theme, but this is not something we have prioritized in this version.

### Colorful pokemon cards

The pokemon cards have a lot of different colors. This is because our target users are kids and young adults who for the most part have good vision. The bright and vibrant colors also go very well with the dark background of the page.

### Font

![Font](./img/font.png)

The font for the page is inspired by the old pokemon games. This is a very retro style and hopefully brings nostalgia to the user. The font does not go very well with Norwegian characters such as “æøå”, but the application is in English and therefore this should not be a too big of a problem.

### Resolution

![Resolution](./img/Resolution.png)

On delivery two we received a comment that said the picture resolution for the pokemons were of too low quality. As mentioned in the font section we are going for a retro style that matches the old pokemon games. We have therefore decided to ignore this comment.

### End-to-end testing

We created several end-to-end tests. Normally you want to test every aspect of the application. In our case, we made e2e tests for every aspect of the app that don’t generate user-data. That means that our pokemon-review function is not tested through e2e. In a professional app-development we would have made a test-database that could host the tests and therefore it would not be a problem to write test-reviews. But in our case, we have to make it simple enough that people can use it and reproduce it. It should also be available for students to run the tests when doing the peer evaluation. Therefore we tested the reviews-function manually. (See piazza @177).

We do not have separate backend-tests to test the queries, but instead test them through the e2e tests. An example of this is the filter-test which checks that we get the correct pokemons according to the filters.

### Accessibility

### Sustainability

Commit message:

docs: comment for component tests

Docs/Choices.md, after:

# Choices

### Team on localstorage

When a user visits a given pokemon they have the opportunity to press a “ADD TO TEAM” button. This will add the pokemon to a team that can be found under the “My Team” tab. The team consists of up to six pokemons that the user can choose freely.

The team is stored in localstorage and not in the database. We have chosen to do this because we don’t see it necessary to save the team to the database as there is no interaction with other peoples teams. We also don’t have a login/user function which makes a browser a user (as you get a userID). Therefore we find it suitable to save the team in localstorage. If we were to develop this application further we would store the team in the database in a similar way to reviews and all the pokemons. This would allow a user to perhaps search for pokemon teams of other users.

### Delayed search

When searching for a pokemon the application will wait for 600 milliseconds after the last keystroke before sending a query to the database. We considered two different approaches to searching. The first is sending a query after each keystroke immediately and the second one is implementing a “send” button that the user had to click in order to send the query.

The reason we have chosen our approach, is because waiting 600 milliseconds makes sure that we don’t send too many requests to the database. This would not have been sustainable. At the same time the user does not have to stop and press a button to get a response, they just have to wait a small amount of time. We found this approach to be a suitable middleground between the two other approaches.

### Colors

![Colors](./img/Colors.png)

### Overall theme

We have chosen to go for dark colors on the website as this suits the theme very well. A further development of the application should involve a light-theme, but this is not something we have prioritized in this version.

### Colorful pokemon cards

The pokemon cards have a lot of different colors. This is because our target users are kids and young adults who for the most part have good vision. The bright and vibrant colors also go very well with the dark background of the page.

### Font

![Font](./img/Font.png)

The font for the page is inspired by the old pokemon games. This is a very retro style and hopefully brings nostalgia to the user. The font does not go very well with Norwegian characters such as “æøå”, but the application is in English and therefore this should not be a too big of a problem.

### Resolution

![Resolution](./img/Resolution.png)

On delivery two we received a comment that said the picture resolution for the pokemons were of too low quality. As mentioned in the font section we are going for a retro style that matches the old pokemon games. We have therefore decided to ignore this comment.

### End-to-end testing

We created several end-to-end tests. Normally you want to test every aspect of the application. In our case, we made e2e tests for every aspect of the app that don’t generate user-data. That means that our pokemon-review function is not tested through e2e. In a professional app-development we would have made a test-database that could host the tests and therefore it would not be a problem to write test-reviews. But in our case, we have to make it simple enough that people can use it and reproduce it. It should also be available for students to run the tests when doing the peer evaluation. Therefore we tested the reviews-function manually. (See piazza @177).

We do not have separate backend-tests to test the queries, but instead test them through the e2e tests. An example of this is the filter-test which checks that we get the correct pokemons according to the filters.

### Component testing

We have made component tests for several of the components we have in out app. In some of the tests, the coverage rate is not that high. This is because some of the functionality is tested through the end-to-end tests.

# TODO: Vidar

### Accessibility

### Sustainability
